{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\f0\fs20 v2.0.3:\par
- I fixed a problem from v2.0 that had crashed the installer if Siege of Dragonspear wasn't installed.\par
\par
v2.0.2:\par
- Birds no longer fly away from their selection circle when the game is reloaded.\par
\par
v2.0.1:\par
- Areas with birds are safe to save in.\par
\par
v2.0:\par
- I improved most of the starting powers for PCs and put in a bunch more abilities.\par
- PCs now start with new passive effects depending on their class and kit, not just innate abilities.\par
- I overhauled the powers of many NPCs.\par
- Arkanis, Canderous, Deder, Mordaine and Osprey now have their own unique powers, as well as soundsets taken from Icewind Dale and Baldur's Gate 2.\par
- Many mod NPCs will gain their own unique powers.\par
- PCs will get their starting powers even if they joined the party after Candlekeep (e.g. if you created a PC in the middle of a multiplayer game). In addition, mod NPCs who haven't been assigned unique abilities will get the starting powers for their kit (or the starting powers for their base class if they have a custom kit) rather than getting nothing.\par
- Over 30 custom kits will now get their own unique starting powers.\par
- I created over 70 new mage and priest spells that can be learned by the party.\par
- Over 40 spells from IWD:EE can now be learned by the party.\par
- Various items have been added throughout the game.\par
- Various magic items have been removed from the game, mainly to reduce the amount of vender trash you get.\par
- Various items have been modified or rebalanced.\par
- The mod now gives new powers to creatures in some quest/encounter mods, including the Baldur's Gate NPC Project, Northern Tales of the Sword Coast, Shadow Magic, and Extra Expanded Enhanced Encounters.\par
- Many bugs have been fixed throughout the game.\par
- Expect plenty more surprises.\par
- High Power Baldur's Gate is now compatible with Project Infinity.\par
\par
- Four new components:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 Allow Arkanis, Deder, Osprey, Mordaine, and Canderous to be taken outside of Candlekeep\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Increase the rate at which warriors and bards get proficiency points\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Let non-warrior Constitution HP bonuses continue past 16 Constitution\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Modify shorty save bonuses\par

\pard\par
- The component Modify Fighting Styles now implements bonuses for up to five stars in each weapon style, and it allows any character who could normally get the highest level of proficiency in a fighting style (3 stars for Two-Weapon Style, 2 stars for the others) to reach five stars in that style.\par
- I split the component that moves Eldoth, Quayle and Tiax to early-game locations into 3 components, one for each character.\par
\par
- Birds can now be interacted with as creatures.\par
- Wyverns and other airborne creatures can now fly over impassable areas while outside.\par
- Shadows and other spectral undead can now go through walls.\par
- Gaze attacks are now released as cones in front of the creature, and they only have an effect on characters looking at the creature.\par
- Squirrels no longer constantly switch places with enemies.\par
- Cows have a much cooler Great Leap ability.\par
- Phase Spiders have a better teleport ability.\par
- Spiders are now animals, with the exception of Wraith Spiders, which are undead.\par
- The Flaming Fist are tougher than they were before.\par
- Ankhegs should be less annoying. They are now divided into three categories: Light Ankhegs, Heavy Ankhegs, and Arcane Ankhegs.\par
- Greater Death Shades and some spiders have been weakened.\par
- Ochre Jellies and Fission Slimes now have more reasonable attacks.\par
- Powerful generic enemies like Battle Horrors and Skeleton Warriors no longer drop stat-increasing books.\par
- Helmed Horrors, Battle Horrors, Doom Guards, Dwarven Doom Guards, Invisible Stalkers, and the Doomsayer no longer have 99% damage resistances, but they have more hit points.\par
\par
- The mod now lets characters gain over 127% or under -128% damage resistance. Also, creatures won't have their spells interrupted by damage they're immune to.\par
\par
- Wizard Detect Evil is now Detect Creatures, which displays the name of each creature in the area and for a brief moment lets you see where each creature is.\par
- Cleric Detect Evil is now Detect Alignment, which displays the alignment of each creature in the area.\par
- Identify Creature now tells you the target's stats.\par
- Repulse Undead is now Circle of Repulsion, which creates an area that pushes back enemies that try to enter it.\par
- Dimension Door is now a 1st-level spell.\par
- Polymorph Self now lets you choose forms with really cool abilities: a lesser basilisk, an ankheg, a troll, a phase spider, or a winter wolf.\par
- Polymorph Other and most similar spells and items now last 8 hours.\par
- Minor Sequencer now properly allows you to store more than 3 spells.\par
- Oracle now lets you know the name of the spell an enemy just started casting.\par
- Protection from the Elements is now Absorb Elements, which grants 200% resistance to fire, cold and electricity.\par
- Protection from Energy is now Absorb Energy, which grants 200% resistance to fire, cold, electricity, acid, magic fire, magic cold, and magic damage.\par
- Effects that improve unarmed THAC0 and/or damage now also affect magical unarmed attacks such as Shocking Grasp, as well as certain shapeshift weapons.\par
- Many magical unarmed attacks such as Shocking Grasp will have a more powerful effect on a critical hit or a backstab.\par
- Ranger Charm Animal now lasts 8 hours and can be cast instantly.\par
- Paladin Detect Evil is now a passive ability that can be turned on and off.\par
- All druid shapeshift forms now have powers reflecting the powers those creatures have.\par
- Some of the evil Bhaalspawn powers have been changed.\par
- All PC Bhaalspawn powers now have 0 casting time.\par
- Many offensive class abilities (e.g. Kai, Poison Weapon, Stunning Blow) can now be used as a free action so you can use them alongside another ability.\par
\par
\par
v1.7:\par
- I added two more components: "Raise the experience cap" and "Revise Wisdom bonus spell table".\par
- Dialogue with certain minor characters has been changed.\par
- I placed more items in certain areas, mainly consumables such as scrolls and stat-increasing tomes.\par
- A previously mundane store somewhere in Baldur's Gate now sells magical darts of all sorts.\par
- Player-created conjurers can cast Summon Small Monster 3x/day.\par
- Player-created diviners can cast Identify Creature 3x/day.\par
- Player-created bards, regardless of kit, can cast Identify Creature at will.\par
- Player-created gnome clerics with no kit will gain the Sequencer Touch ability as they were supposed to.\par
- Player-created clerics with a custom kit will not get Sequencer Touch.\par
- Edwin can now cast Summon Kobold 5x/day.\par
- Alora's "Translocation Trick" ability (which allows her to switch places with another creature) now has unlimited range, and she can now use it 9x/day.\par
- The spells Creeping Doom, Meteor Swarm, Comet, Red Dragon's Breath, and Green Dragon's Breath now have special casting animations.\par
- Kryll and her skeletons have been weakened.\par
- Gibberlings move slower (though they still move very fast)\par
- Winter wolves no longer appear as rest encounters outside the Nashkel Mines.\par
- Elminster's Random Teleport now functions correctly.\par
- Algernon now uses his cloak in combat as I intended.\par
- Rufie now uses his breath weapon in combat as I intended.\par
- Tarnesh no longer casts Larloch's Minor Drain on himself.\par
- Brandilar no longer repeatedly talks to you.\par
- Irlentree no longer transforms into Shalak (which is Zorl's true form). Instead, his true form is a different shapeshifter named Juskal.\par
- During the fight with the warders, Fear now has the Greater Feyr animation.\par
- The unique sprite for the Greatest Basilisk now displays correctly (previously the basilisk had a rabbit sprite for some reason).\par
- Gray Oozes now have fewer hit points and no longer have any magic resistance.\par
- Mustard Jellies now do more damage.\par
- Schlumpsha the Sewer King no longer uses all his psionics at once.\par
- Fire Snakes now have the correct weapon equipped and will use their abilities correctly.\par
- The shapeshifters in the Merchant's League now have the correct name.\par
- The Skeleton Executioner now has the correct name.\par
- Summoned minotaurs now have the correct name.\par
- The Drusus short sword now has the correct name.\par
- The Long Sword +1 ability now works correctly.\par
- The description of the World's Edge sword no longer says that it does piercing damage (that was something from an earlier version of the mod).\par
- The items MEDART80 and MEDART98 now have names and descriptions: MEDART80 is "Dart +2" and MEDART98 is "Zilzanzer's Magnificent Dart +8".\par
- Conjure Lesser Kobold now has its own icon.[/spoiler]\par
\par
v1.6.1:\par
- Bassilus now has his Gauntlets of Fumbling again (in previous versions I had taken the gauntlets away from him for some reason).\par
- Rilsa's Leathers no longer has the wrong icon, and I fixed a bug that stopped some of the effects of the armor from working.\par
- I fixed glitches in a couple of item descriptions that caused dash characters to be replaced with rectangles. I don't think I've gotten rid of all the rectangles, though.\par
- Most hobgoblins now wear HELM11 rather than HELM01. This means that if you have the subcomponent "Make all helmets invisible, except for nonmagical decorative helmets" installed, the hobgoblin helmets will still be visible. HELM11 looks identical to HELM01, but it's a different file.\par
- Hobgoblin Elites no longer have longer casting times.\par
\par
v1.6:\par
- 1 more component has been added; it makes the effects of bard songs stack.\par
- I fixed bugs in Chapter 7, and I nerfed Sarevok a bit.\par
- Eldoth's initial dialogue is no longer different if you choose not to install the component that changes his starting position.\par
- Gelatinous Spheres now show their animation correctly.\par
- Tazok's Fist Breath produces fewer fists and won't cause as much slowdown.\par
- Now creatures that use the Fomorian, Glabrezu, Wererat, Greater Feyr, IWD Shadow and IWD Large Shadow animations will have those animations even if Siege of Dragonspear isn't installed.\par
- I added some more magic items to the game.\par
- I modified Adoy's Belt, the Moonlight Walkers, and the Glimmering Bands.\par
- Noralee now gives a more interesting reward for her quest.\par
- I moved the Skeleton Berserker from the thieves' maze to the ruins south of the bandit camp, and I made the skeleton weaker so that it could be beaten at that point in the game.\par
- The special Ring of Protection is no longer worn by Aggrakesh the Infernal Harpy. Instead, it is worn by the ghost Daital. In this mod Daital is very tough and before this version you didn't get anything cool for beating him.\par
- I put a dragon somewhere in the game. He doesn't drop scales but he has a large hoard.\par
- I replaced the Know Alignment spell with Identify Creature, which displays a different string depending on the creature it is cast upon. However, so far I have only given a string to about 10% of the creatures I am modifying. I still have much more work to do.\par
\par
\par
v1.5:\par
- The mod now includes an English TRA file. All strings in the TP2 file have been replaced with TRA references.\par
- Some, but not all, of the new magic items that previously only had placeholder descriptions now have actual descriptions.\par
- I fixed some bugs where the contents of certain components would be automatically installed in the main component.\par
\par
v1.4:\par
- 1 more component has been added; it lets you choose whether to change the starting positions of Quayle,\par
 Eldoth and Tiax, so that they can join your party earlier on.\par
- The gigantic Fomorian Colossus is now a regular-sized Fomorian Giant; the BAM files for the Fomorian Colossus have been removed as they had taken up a total of about 60 megabytes, almost half the size of the entire mod.\par
 Doing this allowed me to upload the mod folder onto GitHub.\par
\par
v1.3:\par
- 4 more components have been added, and the readme has been updated to explain them.\par
- War dogs now cast Dog Haste like they're supposed to.\par
- The Amazing Oopah now loses HP after each explosion as I intended.\par
- Normal doppelgangers no longer deal nonlethal damage.\par
- The spell lists of cleric and druid NPC party members have been updated to match my changes to the spells (I had made certain spells usable or unusable by clerics or druids when they weren't before).\par
- Planetars are no longer immune to +2 weapons.\par
\par
\par
v1.2:\par
- 18 extra components have been added; some of them change spells, some change 2da files, others change classes or kits.\par
- A readme has been added; it explains what the components do.\par
- The Seeking Sword now dispels Mirror Image and Invisibility effects on hit; I gave it a description, and I updated the description of the Seeking Sword ability, and the description of it in the Priest of Helm description.\par
- Archer player characters now get Breach at the beginning of the game as they're supposed to.\par
\par
\par
Change log:\par
[spoiler]v1.1:\par
- Gorion can no longer kill the protagonist in the fight with Sarevok.\par
- The pseudodragon, imp, quasit, and dust mephit familiars will no longer die instantly when summoned.\par
- A bug with Gretek's dialog in the Helm and Cloak inn has been fixed.\par
- Phantasmal Killer, Selune's Curse, Selune's Blessing and the cat familiar's True Strike ability now have descriptions.\par
- Most innate versions of Shaman spells now have descriptions in the non-Siege of Dragonspear version of the game.\par
- A typo in the Stupidifier's desciption has been fixed.\par
- Cows no longer produce an unintended string when they use their Great Leap ability.\par
\par
}
 